.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii b0.man
.\"
.TH B0 1 "JULY 2007" "" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
b0 \- b0 compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B b0 [-f 
.I format
.B ] [-i
.I include_paths
.B ] [-UTF8] [-UTF16] [-DEBUG] [-v] [-W] [-h|-?|-l] [-o
.I output_filename 
.B ] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The B0 package contains a very simple compiler used to compile a language which has high-level
constructs based on low-level or reduced operations.

The language is a cross between assembler and C, and could be considered a High Level Assembler
(or HLA), but I personally wouldn't go that far. I prefer to think of it as a hybrid between the two.

The current compiler generates an assembly listing, which can be passed unaltered to 
.B fasm
to produce an executable or object file. See 
.B fasm
man page for information on assembling files.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f format"
Type of executable or object file to be built by fasm. Valid options are:

.I elf
(ELF64 execuatble) - Default on Linux Systems,

.I elfo
(ELF64 Object - to be linked using gcc/ld),

.I pe
(PE32+ for Windows x64 ) - Default on Windows Systems.

.I dll
(DLL for Windows x64 ) - to create Windows DLL files.

.IP "-i include_paths"
Paths to be searched for include/library files. Separate using semi-colon (Windows) or colons (*nix).
.IP -UTF8
Encode strings as UTF8 instead of UTF16.
.IP -UTF16
Encode strings as UTF16 (DEFAULT).
.IP -DEBUG
Enable compiler debugging output.
.IP -v
Display Compiler version information.
.IP -W
Disable the display of warnings during compilation.
.IP "-h or -?"
Display Help
.IP "-l"
Display Software License
.IP "-o output_filename"
Set putput filename
.SH "USAGE EXAMPLE"
> b0 -felf my_prog.b0

> fasm my_prog.asm my_prog
.SH FILES
.IP ./doc/b0-man.html
complete b0 manual in html format.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP B0_INCLUDE
Path to system wide includes and libraries, separate by semi-colon's ';' (Windows) or colon's (*nix). Paths defined using
.B -i
will be searched 
.B before
those in the environment variable.
.SH DIAGNOSITICS
N/A
.SH BUGS
No known bugs. You can use
.B -DEBUG
to find where the compiler is crashing, and submit the ouput and a copy of the source you are attempting
to compile for investigation.
.SH AUTHOR
Darran Kartaschew (aka Chewy509) <Chewy509@mailcity.com>
.SH LICENSE
b0, both language and this implementation are released under the BSD license.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fasm (1)
